docs: TSS Rosters design proposal (#14045)
hashgraph/hedera-services: platform-sdk/docs/proposals/001-tss-rosters-design-proposal/001-tss-rosters-design-proposal.md

# TSS - Roster Proposal

---

## Summary

This proposal outlines the design and implementation of rosters within the Hedera Hashgraph system to support Threshold
Signature Scheme (TSS) block signing. It details the roster's lifecycle, data storage, API, and necessary changes to the
reconnect process.

| Metadata           | Entities                                                  | 
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Designers          | Kore, Anthony, Ed, Cody, Austin                           |
| Functional Impacts | TSS, Cryptography, Reconnect                              |
| Related Proposals  | TSS-Library, TSS-Roster, TSS-Ledger-Id, TSS-Block-Signing |
| HIPS               | N/A                                                       |

## Purpose and Context

The introduction of the Threshold Signature Scheme (TSS) necessitates a new mechanism for managing node participation in
consensus and block signing.
Rosters, as immutable subsets of the address book, will provide this mechanism, ensuring efficient and secure key
management for TSS operations.

> This proposal attempts to provide a specification for the behavior of rosters starting from their creation from the CAB

Reviewer: I suggest to explicitly define project-related acronyms, such as the `CAB` here.

currently active roster, the optional previously active roster, and an optional candidate roster. There will be new
fields in PlatformState - `candidateRosterHash` and `activeRosterHash` - such that at adoption time, the way to trigger
the adoption of a roster will be by the client code inserting a roster in the roster map, alongside setting the
candidateRosterHash field in the PlatformState. The `activeRosterHash` will be private to the platform and will not be
settable or modifiable from outside the platform.

This indirection avoids moving data around in the merkle state which requires data to be copied into the block stream.
This is computationally expensive. Another benefit of this approach is that adoption trigger becomes very simple (app
sets the roster) with clear responsibility between the app and the platform.

Some edge cases worth considering include:

1. multiple concurrent roster submission - has a potential for introducing race conditions. We will prevent this by
   guaranteeing immutability on rosters.
2. Size control on the map of rosters - we certainly don’t want this map to grow infinitely so insertion of rosters will

>    be controlled, with clear rules for removal of unused rosters (e.g. the acceptance of a new candidate roster
>    invalidates and removes existing one).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   be controlled, with clear rules for removal of unused rosters (e.g. the acceptance of a new candidate roster
   invalidates and removes the previous roster, and marks the currently active roster as the new previous roster).
```

And while the above is good to handle the previous/active/candidate rosters, there might be a case where multiple candidate rosters may still end up in the map if some of them never get adopted.

I suggest to consider introducing a TTL for rosters and have a periodic process that would scan the map and delete all entries past their TTL unless they're currently previous/active/candidate roster. If the TTL is implemented, then on average the map size will never exceed 3.

There's a caveat related to that: should the app choose to use the map to hosts their future rosters, it would have to be aware of this clean up procedure. Alternatively, we can explicitly prohibit the app to host future rosters in this map.

> ###### Roster API - Implementation

Reviewer: I believe we want to describe the new Roster datastructure in details in this very design document, w/o referencing any (potentially private) Notion pages.

We also need to describe where exactly in state we propose to store the rosters map and the active/previous/candidate pointers.

Author: done

Implementation of some new TSS components has been proposed.

> See [link](https://www.notion.so/TSS-Platform-Architecture-04b15df371ba4b1d848360542e05a030?pvs=21).

Reviewer: Technically, the TSS-Roster is unlikely to need any changes in the components or wiring. At least not the ones currently described in this Notion page. So I suggest to remove these two lines because the TSS-Ledger-Id proposal is responsible for these changes.

It is **important** to note that before the TSS protocol is implemented and launched, the Platform will adopt a CR
during any software upgrade if the CR is present in the state. Only after the TSS protocol is launched will we be able
to add an extra condition to verify that the CR is complete, meaning that it has enough TSS key material and votes

> accumulated.

Reviewer: This should be in or after the Core Behaviors section below because logically this paragraph clarifies an aspect of the Roster life cycle which only is described in that section.

  replace the old one.

### Public API

Platform API: A new method will be added to the platform API to allow the App submit a candidate roster:

```java
//in State

void submitCandidateRoster(@NonNull final Roster candidateRoster);
```

### Configuration

The config.txt file will no longer be used for storing the address book in existing networks. It will only be used for
the genesis of new networks.

### Data storage

All the data related to active and candidate roster, including the key material being accumulated via TSS messages, will
always be stored in the State. There will not be any other separate artifacts stored elsewhere (e.g. directly on disk.).
The only artifact that will continue to be stored on disk separately from the State is the config.txt, which, as
explained in *Bootstrapping Genesis for a brand new network* section below, will only ever be used once during a genesis
of a brand new network. The config.txt file, or at least its part that describes the address book components, will never
be used in the life cycle of an existing network after that.

### Startup procedure (pseudo-code)

```java
if(a State
exists on
disk){

loadStateFromDisk();

> }else{

Reviewer: I suggest to preserve the original lines indentation so that this code is readable.

Reviewer 2: I agree, the current formatting makes this very difficult to read

Author: The formatting got lost after copy/paste from notion. Fixed
